♪Opening Song♪
[GINKO] I could've
sworn I heard something.
A strange sound echoing through
the icy air of these hills.
[GINKO]
Was it just my imagination?
[wind howls]
[GINKO]
No... There it is again.
It's coming from over there.
[woman screams]
[GINKO]
Is that... a woman?
[gasps]
[screaming scontinues]
[GINKO]
Rust?
What's going on here?
[GINKO]
It stopped.
[gasps]
[GINKO] So when did the illness
first appear in this town?
I'd say It was about
14 years ago.
Since then, those afflicted
complain about their skin.
It appears healthy, but is
unnaturally hard in places.
There's also a loss of
mobility in the arms and legs.
Many suffer from it.
By far, the worst case
is an old friend of mine.
He's so far gone that he
can't even get up anymore.
Where is this friend of yours?
[BOSS] He and his wife live
on the western edge of town.
Their daughter
lives there, as well.
The townspeople believe that
she is the cause of the illness.
[BOSS]
Her name is Shige.
Ever since she was born,
everyone around her has
come down with the illness,
one after another.
I know that may sound strange,
but it's the truth.
For the past 14 years,
we've desperately tried to
find the cause of all this,
but we're no closer now
than we were then.
Years ago, the girl
stopped talking.
Since then, everyone has
grown suspicious of her.
[MAID]
Here. That's for this month.
[MAID] I really don't
understand the master.
I know he's good friends with
your parents, but I just--
I don't see why he
takes pity on you.
I wish he'd use that money
to give us a raise instead.
[MAID] My, that's a
pretty big hole, isn't it?
Sorry, that's the
only bag I have.
[TETSU]
Shige!
Here you go. Use this.
The townspeople never get
tired of it, do they?
You should give them a
piece of your mind sometime.
Those rumors are
all lies, right?
[TETSU] And even if they were
true, it's not like you wanted
your family and
friends to get sick.
About two years ago,
a storm destroyed my village.
Most of my family and
friends were taken by it.
That's why I decided
to come here:
To earn the money, we used
to rely on my father for.
I did what I had to
do to survive. Like you.
[gasps]
[TETSU]
You have my respect for that.
Hey...
I'd like to ask you a
few things about that girl.
You another one of those doctors
called in by the master?
I don't know anything.
She won't talk to me, either.
Tetsu! What's keepin' you?
[TETSU]
Sorry! I'm coming!
[GINKO]
Hm...
[gasps]
Shige! Welcome home.
Thank you... for helping.
[SHIGE gasps]
You're... Shige, right?
You can see
this rust, can't you.
My name's Ginko.
I was summoned here
to help find a cure.
And no, I don't
blame you for it.
This illness can be cured,
but I'll need your help.
Please. Tell me about it.
That's all I ask.
That should be enough.
This smoke should protect me,
and allow you to speak freely.
I don't want to
rust either, you know.
[gasps, coughs]
See? Nothing happened.
[gasps]
Wait. The rust. You mean...
...you can see it?
[GINKO]
Yes, I can.
That sound...
My voice is cursed.
That's why, earlier...
...I was screaming.
I was trying to ruin it.
[GINKO]
It's so thick and raspy.
Unfitting for
such a tiny body.
[SHIGE] I kept
screaming and screaming
until my voice ended
up the way it is now.
[GINKO]
Yet it reverberates with such
sweet and elegant overtones.
But still.
No matter how much it changes,
Whenever I use my voice,
it causes the rust to appear.
[GINKO] Mysterious and strange,
yet marvelous at the same time.
[SHIGE'S FATHER]
Shige!
[YOUNG SHIGE]
Daddy! Welcome home!
[SHIGE'S FATHER]
Thank you!
That doll, What is it?
[YOUNG SHIGE chuckles]
That's my baby sister!
Oh, I see...
[SHIGE]
Whenever I spoke,
rust would form on the
people and things around me.
It's all I'd ever known,
so I thought it was just
the way things were,
that it was the
same for everyone.
Hey, Shige.
Why don't you sing for me?
[SHIGE] People always asked
me to sing, so I would.
It seemed like a perfectly
normal thing to do.
Eventually, I noticed that no
one else could see the rust.
I was four when I first realized
that it was something bad.
Everyone around me
started having trouble
moving their bodies.
[SHIGE] I decided to tell my
mother and father about it.
Shige, promise me.
You'll never tell
anyone else about this.
If you do, we won't
be able to stay here.
Your mother and I
can't work anymore.
We're only able to get by
because of the generosity
shown to us by the master
at the main house.
For now,
we'll keep this a secret,
and remain here,
and accept their charity.
The day will come
when we can repay them.
Until then, you must
never use your voice.
I'm sorry, Shige.
[SHIGE]
Since that day,
I haven't spoken
a word to anyone.
That was ten years ago.
Everyone here should despise
me for what I've done,
and for what I continue
to do by remaining here
with my family
instead of leaving.
Interesting.
The sounds I hear when
you speak. They're intriguing.
I'm not even sure
how you make them.
Human vocal chords normally
can't produce those
types of overtones.
Of course,
I suspect I hear your voice
a bit differently than most.
As it happens, I know of another
sound with similar qualities.
This isn't rust.
It's a mushi called the
"yasabi" and it's alive.
A mushi?
Some can see them,
other people cannot.
They are a different
form of life.
The yasabi are normally
harmless mushi
that attach themselves to
the bodies of dead animals
and help with
their decomposition.
During this process,
they create a specific sound.
Your voice contains
this same sound,
only amplified
several hundredfold.
Upon hearing it, the yasabi
come down from the mountains
and gather here,
believing there to be food.
But, because they find none,
they attach themselves
on to anything,
including living beings.
The solution is to scatter them.
[gasps]
Is that possible?
[GINKO] Yes. And beyond that,
there should be a way
to return your voice
to normal, as well.
They're on everything.
Not too picky, are they?
This entire town is covered
with that rust color.
[GINKO]
Hm?
Hey!
It's cold out here.
Why are you sitting in the snow?
Uh, no reason.
[GINKO]
I see...
You're not afraid
of Shige, are you?
No, I've only lived in
this town for two years.
So I guess I've
never really believed
that Shige is the
cause of the illness.
See ya'.
Yeah.
[GINKO] That must be why
he doesn't have a single
yasabi on him.
[GINKO] You can see
the ocean from here.
[GINKO]
Wait! Could it be?
I thought so.
[SHIGE exhales]
[SHIGE] If everyone's
illness can be cured,
and I can finally speak again...
... I can thank Tetsu.
I can thank him for
everything with my own voice.
[SHIGE]
What?
[GINKO]
That's right.
We're going to use your voice
to get rid of the Mushi.
But then, after that,
for everyone's safety,
you're going to have
to leave this town.
[SHIGE]
I understand.
I'll do anything I can to
help cure this illness.
But...
[GINKO]
Hm?
[SHIGE]
Can I ask a favor of you?
[SHIGE] I'd like you to
teach me how to write.
Huh? Hey there.
Oh yeah. My handkerchief.
Thank you.
[TETSU]
Hey!
[BOSS]
What?!
You've found
what's causing this?
Is it... Shige?
No. That was nothing
more than a rumor.
[TETSU]
Wait. No. This way?
Here, I'll read it for you.
No! Give that back!
"If I talk... you will get sick,
just like the others?"
"I'm sorry? Thank you
for everything"?
Tetsu! Who wrote this?!
Tell me! Was it Shige?!
I told you! Give it back!
[MAID]
No...
You've always been
sympathetic towards her.
It has to be Shige!
I'm going to show this
to the master--
[TETSU]
No! You can't!
[MAID grunts]
[FEMALE SERVANT A]
Tetsu! What are you doing?!
[SERVANTS gasp]
I'm sorry about all this.
[MALE SERVANT A]
Tetsu!
[MAID]
No! Don't chase him!
Hurry! Get that out of the fire!
[MALE SERVANT A]
Right!
[MAID]
Damn that girl!
I won't let her play
innocent any longer!
[TETSU]
Shige!
You've got to run away, Shige!
Now! They'll all be
coming for you soon.
There's no way of knowing
what they might do to you.
[SHIGE]
I can't! Not yet!
Ginko hasn't shown me how
to chase away the Mushi.
I won't go!
[GINKO]
Shige!
You've got to get out of here!
Wait for me over there,
at that ridge.
After I get these
people under control,
I'll meet you there and tell you
how to get rid of the mushi.
I'll go too.
I can't stay in this
town any longer.
That ridge is in the same
direction as my old village.
It's dangerous to--
Thought you'd say that.
You can do it. Go.
Ginko, why?
Why are you protecting Shige?
Bring her to us!
[MALE VILLAGER B] She has
to pay for what she's done!
Getting rid of Shige is not
going to cure the illness.
It's not her fault.
All she did was talk,
laugh, and sing,
just like any other
child would do.
It's her voice. It contains
a unique sound element.
That's what attracted
the illness here.
We don't give a damn
about what the reason is!
She's the one
that caused this!
How is she going to repay us?
She's been repaying you.
Silently.
For the past ten years.
If she had broken her silence
and made up some sort of excuse,
I'm sure she would have
been able to deceive you.
Instead, she carried
the weight of her sin.
That doesn't mean we
should forgive her!
My child...
She's the same age as Shige
and she can't even walk!
My child's the same way!
Look. I'm helping
her to make amends.
If it's her voice that
brought the illness,
it's her voice that
can take it away.
[GINKO] Wouldn't that
make things even?
Everyone who's been
afflicted with this illness
has shared the same pain.
[TETSU]
Shige, about that letter...
The way it was written
led me to believe
you were going to leave town.
Do you still plan on doing that,
even if this sickness is cured?
[TETSU]
Do you know where you'll go?
Well, would you
like to come with me,
and live in my village?
Now, Most of the houses and
boats there were swept away,
but everything is
slowly being rebuilt.
You should come!
So what do you say?
[TETSU]
Shige!
[GINKO]
They're not here.
Did something happen?
[SHIGE]
I need to call for help.
But, my voice...
[SHIGE]
Maybe... from this distance...
[GINKO]
This illness can be cured.
Shige!
Tetsu!
--[SHIGE screams]
--[GINKO gasps]
[GINKO] That unmistakable voice
echoed through the mountains.
[screams continues]
[SHIGE'S FATHER gasps]
My legs... feel... lighter!
[SHIGE'S MOTHER gasps]
So do mine!
Hey! Shige!
Are you two all right?
[sobs]
Tetsu, I'm sorry.
So sorry.
What have I done?
Now you're sick, too.
[sobbing continues]
No, he's just unconscious.
Don't worry.
I promise he won't
get the illness.
[gasps]
Shige!
You're all right!
Look! Our legs!
[GINKO]
As it turned out,
you did something that
was very similar
to what I had in mind
from the beginning.
The plan I devised was
to have your voice
echo through the mountains,
Which would cause the
yasabi gathered in this town
to disperse.
But the location
you called out from
had to be that ridge where
I'd told you to meet me,
with the view of
the ocean behind it.
Yasabi dislike salt
and saltwater.
The rust at the edge of town,
closest to where the
ocean breeze blows in,
wasn't the yasabi.
It was plain rust.
The reason Tetsu
never got sick,
was because he was
from a fishing village.
Even after he came here,
he continued to be exposed
to the sea breeze
while going back and
forth to his old village.
If you live near the sea,
you can have a
normal life, as well.
But you've only scattered
a small fraction
of the mushi in this town.
You'll have to repeat
this again and again
for decades in order to
get rid of all of them.
You might even wear your
voice out before it's done.
Everything considered,
I don't think I'd mind that.
[SHIGE] Although they're vague,
I do have memories of this place
before there was any rust here.
Back in those days,
I really loved this
simple little town.
[SHIGE]
I'll do anything I can
to bring it back to
the way it was.
[GINKO]
After the girl left town,
it's said that the sickness
slowly went away.
[TETSU]
Shige!
You headed up to the ridge?
[SHIGE]
Mm-hm.
[TETSU]
I'll join you.
[GINKO] Even now, the people
of that town say they
can still hear a voice calling
out somewhere in the distance.
A strange, hoarse,
yet familiar and lovely voice,
echoing through the mountains.
[NARRATOR] Next: "The Journey
to the Field of Fire."